README.md, before:

# vagrant-ubuntu64

Vagrant local development environment with PHP, NGiNX, MySQL (LEMP stack)

Download and install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) (if you don’t have them), then install [VirtualBox Extension Pack](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) to extend the functionality, read the [Docs](https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch01.html#intro-installing).

If you are using [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/) follow the wiki pages [Vagrant](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Vagrant) and [VirtualBox](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/VirtualBox).

## Motivation

As a Vagrant power user I had fun installing and running multiple VMs simultaneously (with static IPv4 IPs on the 192.168.1.\* subnet and also with IPv6), I've done this hundreds of times with Puppet (with Master and Agent nodes), as well as with Ansible. In bigging I mostly used pre-built Vagrant Boxes from [Vagrant Cloud](https://app.vagrantup.com/boxes/search) for convenience. It is often very useful and necessary (for administration/networking and programming purposes) to know what is going on "under the hood", because it gives you, way better insight into things that you can't see at first glance :wink: this is what motivated me to create my own Box.

![Screenshot](./media/vagrant_screenshot.png)

## VirtualBox

**Name your box as (required):** `vagrant-ubuntu64`  
**Type:** `Linux`  
**Version:** `Ubuntu64`  
**Memory Size:** `2048MB`  
**Virtual disk type:** `VMDK (Pre-allocate Full Size)`  
**Fixed disk size:** `20 GB` (IMHO not less than 15GB)  
**Port forwarding:**
Name | Protocol | Host IP | Host Port | Guest IP | Guest port
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
SSH | TCP | blank | 2222 | blank | 22

## Ubuntu Server installation

Download the latest [Ubuntu Server](https://ubuntu.com/download/server) iso.  
Follow the installation process (all defaults), however, it is recommended to install OpenSSH Server. For name, server name, username and password, type: vagrant (in all input fields in following screen below):

![Screenshot](./media/profile_setup.png)

## Ubuntu CLI

When the installation is complete, run the box and login with the vagrant user

```
$ sudo passwd root
$ sudo visudo -f /etc/sudoers.d/vagrant
```

Add the line `vagrant ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL`

```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt upgrade
$ sudo shutdown -r now
```

Login again

```
$ mkdir -p /home/vagrant/.ssh
$ chmod 0700 /home/vagrant/.ssh
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://raw.github.com/mitchellh/vagrant/master/keys/vagrant.pub -O /home/vagrant/.ssh/authorized_keys
$ chmod 0600 /home/vagrant/.ssh/authorized_keys
$ chown -R vagrant /home/vagrant/.ssh
$ sudo apt-get install -y openssh-server
$ sudo vim /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Uncomment the entire line `AuthorizedKeysFile`

```
$ sudo systemctl restart ssh
$ sudo apt-get install -y gcc build-essential linux-headers-$(uname -r)
```

On VirtualBox (top menu) click on "Devices" and then select "Insert Guest Additions CD Image", follow the installation process

```
$ sudo mount /dev/cdrom /mnt
$ cd /mnt
$ ls -la
$ sudo ./VBoxLinuxAdditions.run
$ sudo shutdown -r now
```

If the Guest Additions CD Image cannot be installed or if an error occurs

```
$ sudo add-apt-repository multiverse
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install virtualbox-guest-utils virtualbox-guest-x11
$ sudo shutdown -r now
```

Then write a sparse file, with zeros in all blank spaces on the volume (make your disk as small as possible)

```
$ sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/EMPTY bs=1M
$ sudo rm -f /EMPTY
$ cat /dev/null > ~/.bash_history && history -c && exit;
$ sudo shutdown now
```

On host (physical machine)

```
$ mkdir ~/projects/vagrantBoxes && cd ~/projects/vagrantBoxes
$ vagrant package --base vagrant-ubuntu64
$ vagrant box add vagrant-ubuntu64 package.box
$ git clone git@github.com:ncklinux/vagrant-ubuntu64.git
$ cd vagrant-ubuntu64
$ vagrant up
$ vagrant ssh
```

MySQL CLI (password `vagrant`)

```
$ mysql -u vagrant -p
```

Stop, destroy and remove the box

```
$ vagrant halt
$ vagrant destroy
$ vagrant box list
$ vagrant box remove vagrant-ubuntu64
```

## Plugins
Vagrant supports many great features out of the box to help you get your environments up and running. However, you may need to modify or add additional functionality to Vagrant. This is where [Vagrant Plugins](https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant/wiki/Available-Vagrant-Plugins) come in handy!

## Support

The above project (Ubuntu Server LEMP environment) has been tested/hosted on [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/) but there are no differences between distributions (only the Vagrant/VirtualBox installation process differs e.g. Arch Linux provides Pacman, Ubuntu Apt etc), for reporting bugs, requesting features or better methods, it's best to open an [issue](https://github.com/ncklinux/vagrant-ubuntu64/issues/new). It's even better to accompany it with a Pull Request. ;)

[Watch this repo](https://github.com/ncklinux/vagrant-ubuntu64/subscription) :star: it and follow me on [GitHub](https://github.com/ncklinux) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ncklinux)

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0

## Powered by

<img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/unix/unix-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bash/bash-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/ssh/ssh-original-wordmark.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/vagrant/vagrant-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nginx/nginx-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/php/php-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mysql/mysql-plain-wordmark.svg" />

## Alternative to Vagrant?

You could use [Docker!](https://github.com/ncklinux/docker-lemp)

Commit message:

feat: add global status and prune in readme

README.md, after:

# vagrant-ubuntu64

Vagrant local development environment with PHP, NGiNX, MySQL (LEMP stack)

Download and install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) (if you don’t have them), then install [VirtualBox Extension Pack](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) to extend the functionality, read the [Docs](https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch01.html#intro-installing).

If you are using [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/) follow the wiki pages [Vagrant](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Vagrant) and [VirtualBox](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/VirtualBox).

## Motivation

As a Vagrant power user I had fun installing and running multiple VMs simultaneously (with static IPv4 IPs on the 192.168.1.\* subnet and also with IPv6), I've done this hundreds of times with Puppet (with Master and Agent nodes), as well as with Ansible. In bigging I mostly used pre-built Vagrant Boxes from [Vagrant Cloud](https://app.vagrantup.com/boxes/search) for convenience. It is often very useful and necessary (for administration/networking and programming purposes) to know what is going on "under the hood", because it gives you, way better insight into things that you can't see at first glance :wink: this is what motivated me to create my own Box.

![Screenshot](./media/vagrant_screenshot.png)

## VirtualBox

**Name your box as (required):** `vagrant-ubuntu64`  
**Type:** `Linux`  
**Version:** `Ubuntu64`  
**Memory Size:** `2048MB`  
**Virtual disk type:** `VMDK (Pre-allocate Full Size)`  
**Fixed disk size:** `20 GB` (IMHO not less than 15GB)  
**Port forwarding:**
Name | Protocol | Host IP | Host Port | Guest IP | Guest port
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
SSH | TCP | blank | 2222 | blank | 22

## Ubuntu Server installation

Download the latest [Ubuntu Server](https://ubuntu.com/download/server) iso.  
Follow the installation process (all defaults), however, it is recommended to install OpenSSH Server. For name, server name, username and password, type: vagrant (in all input fields in following screen below):

![Screenshot](./media/profile_setup.png)

## Ubuntu CLI

When the installation is complete, run the box and login with the vagrant user

```
$ sudo passwd root
$ sudo visudo -f /etc/sudoers.d/vagrant
```

Add the line `vagrant ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL`

```
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt upgrade
$ sudo shutdown -r now
```

Login again

```
$ mkdir -p /home/vagrant/.ssh
$ chmod 0700 /home/vagrant/.ssh
$ wget --no-check-certificate https://raw.github.com/mitchellh/vagrant/master/keys/vagrant.pub -O /home/vagrant/.ssh/authorized_keys
$ chmod 0600 /home/vagrant/.ssh/authorized_keys
$ chown -R vagrant /home/vagrant/.ssh
$ sudo apt-get install -y openssh-server
$ sudo vim /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Uncomment the entire line `AuthorizedKeysFile`

```
$ sudo systemctl restart ssh
$ sudo apt-get install -y gcc build-essential linux-headers-$(uname -r)
```

On VirtualBox (top menu) click on "Devices" and then select "Insert Guest Additions CD Image", follow the installation process

```
$ sudo mount /dev/cdrom /mnt
$ cd /mnt
$ ls -la
$ sudo ./VBoxLinuxAdditions.run
$ sudo shutdown -r now
```

If the Guest Additions CD image cannot be installed or if an error occurs, execute the following

```
$ sudo add-apt-repository multiverse
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install virtualbox-guest-utils virtualbox-guest-x11
$ sudo shutdown -r now
```

Then write a sparse file, with zeros in all blank spaces on the volume (make your disk as small as possible)

```
$ sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/EMPTY bs=1M
$ sudo rm -f /EMPTY
$ cat /dev/null > ~/.bash_history && history -c && exit;
$ sudo shutdown now
```

On host (physical machine)

```
$ mkdir ~/projects/vagrantBoxes && cd ~/projects/vagrantBoxes
$ vagrant package --base vagrant-ubuntu64
$ vagrant box add vagrant-ubuntu64 package.box
$ git clone git@github.com:ncklinux/vagrant-ubuntu64.git
$ cd vagrant-ubuntu64
$ vagrant up
$ vagrant ssh
```

MySQL CLI (password `vagrant`)

```
$ mysql -u vagrant -p
```

Stop, destroy and remove the box

```bash
$ vagrant halt
$ vagrant destroy
$ vagrant box list
$ vagrant box remove vagrant-ubuntu64

# Get the state of all active Vagrant environments on the system for the currently logged in user and discard old boxes
$ vagrant global-status
$ vagrant global-status --prune
```

## Plugins

Vagrant supports many great features out of the box to help you get your environments up and running. However, you may need to modify or add additional functionality to Vagrant. This is where [Vagrant Plugins](https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant/wiki/Available-Vagrant-Plugins) come in handy!

## Support

The above project (Ubuntu Server LEMP environment) has been tested/hosted on [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/) but there are no differences between distributions (only the Vagrant/VirtualBox installation process differs e.g. Arch Linux provides Pacman, Ubuntu Apt etc), for reporting bugs, requesting features or better methods, it's best to open an [issue](https://github.com/ncklinux/vagrant-ubuntu64/issues/new). It's even better to accompany it with a Pull Request. ;)

[Watch this repo](https://github.com/ncklinux/vagrant-ubuntu64/subscription) :star: it and follow me on [GitHub](https://github.com/ncklinux) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ncklinux)

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0

## Powered by

<img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/unix/unix-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bash/bash-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/ssh/ssh-original-wordmark.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/vagrant/vagrant-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nginx/nginx-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/php/php-original.svg" /><img height="33" style="margin-right: 3px;" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mysql/mysql-plain-wordmark.svg" />

## Alternative to Vagrant?

You could use [Docker!](https://github.com/ncklinux/docker-lemp)
